A Charming Luncheon 14-3

the walls, on this forest of columns-estimate
and, with their arms and long hands, continue
with animation their eternal mute conversa-
tion. The whole temple, with the openings
which give it light, is more beautiful perhaps
than in the time of the Pharaohs. In place of
the old-time darkness, a transparent gloom now
alternates with shafts of sunlight. Here and
there the subjects of the bas-reliefs, so long
buried in the darkness, are deluged with burning
rays which detail their attitudes, their muscles,
their scarcely altered colours, and endow them
again with life and youth. There is no part of
the wall, in this immense place, but is covered
with divinities, with hieroglyphs and emblems.
Osiris in high coiffure, the beautiful Isis in
the helmet of a bird, jackal-headed Anubis,
falcon-headed Horus, and ibis-headed Thoth are
repeated a thousand times, welcoming with
strange gestures the kings and priests who are
rendering them homage.

The bodies, almost nude, with broad shoulders
and slim waist, have a slenderness, a grace,
infinitely chaste, and the features of the faces
are of an exquisite purity. The artists who
carved these charming heads, with their long
eyes, full of the ancient dream, were already
skilled in their art; but through a deficiency,
which puzzles us, they were only able to draw


