I 7 8 Egypt

the desert that is always present, dominating
everything, although scarcely noticed and, as it
were, latent.

And this morning, at the rising of the sun, is
pure and splendid as all other mornings. A tint
of rosy coral comes gradually to life on the
summit of the Libyan mountains, standing out
from the gridelin shadows which, in the heavens,
were the rearguard of the night.

But my eyes, grown accustomed during the
last few weeks to this glorious spectacle of the
dawn, turn themselves, as if by force of some
attraction, towards a strange and quite unusual
thing, which, less than a mile away along the
river, on the Arabian bank, rises upright in the
midst of the mournful plains. At first it looks
like a mass of towering rocks, which in this hour
of twilight magic have taken on a pale violet
colour, and seem almost transparent. And the
sun, scarcely emerged from the desert, lights
them in a curious gradation, and borders their
contours with a fringe of fresh rose-colour. And
they are not rocks, in fact, for as we look more
closely, they show us lines symmetrical and
straight. Not rocks, but architectural masses,
tremendous and superhuman, placed there in
attitudes of quasi-eternal stability. And out of
them rise the points of two obelisks, sharp as the


