Cairo. 41

clothing, though the temperature is often above
OO'' Fahr. for a few hours at a, time. Invalids
leave for Ramleh, or for Italy and the south of
France. Strawberries and apricots. Oleander,
pelargonium, and Sunflowers.

JIay.--We are still liable to occasional khanr.
seen winds, and each week the weather is becoming
warmer; but Cairo is now vorylovely; the trees in
the streets have their new foliage, and the gardens
are bright with many subtropical fiosrering trees
and shrubs. On May 6 I once saw the exceptional
event of a thunder and lightning storm, with hail-
stones as big as dried peas, and a shade tempera-
ture of 85Â° Fahr. Quail leave Egypt for Europe.
Sweet melons and water-melons. Balsam, mag-
nolia, lotus, jessamine, eonvolvulus, and passion-
flowers.

June, July, Auyust.-lhese are the three hottest
months of the year, and in August the climate is
already becoming a little damp in consequence of
the rising Nile. Rich natives spend these months
in Alexandria, Syria, 01' Constantinople. Euro-
peans in Cairo take a siesta after luncheon.
Government ofEees are closed at 1p.m.,but after
4pm1. every Englishman goes out to ride, drive,
golf, or lairrrtennis, and the British soldier plays
cricket anti football. The nights are always cool,
so that it is possible to dine out of doors without


