396 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

DAHSHUR.

The brick pyramids of Dahsh0r, commonly called the
" black pyramids," lie on the edge of the sandy plain which
bounds the Nile Valley on the west; one is situated to the
north of the village of Dahshtir, facing the hamlet of
Menshiyyeh, and the other, some miles distant from the
first, stands more to the north, about half-way between
Menshiyyeh and fjal.rlsttra. The systematic exploration and
examination of these interesting monuments was the task
which the indefatigable Director-General of Antiquities set
himself during the winter of 1893-4.

The northern pyramid is buiitofhricks laid without mortar,
in place of which sand is used, and an examination of them
shows that they belong to the period of the XIIth dynasty.

' Soon after the work of clearing had been begun, a stone

bearing the cartouche of Usertsen IH. Cr, QUUU

was found, and thus a tolerably exact date was ascertained;
on the 26th of February, 1894, the entrance to a pit was
found, and in the east corner there appeared an opening
which led through a gallery and sepulchral chamber to
several tombs. In one chamber were the fragments of ll
sarcophagus and statue of Mcnthumesu, and in another was
the sarcophagus of Nefert-hent; it was quite clear that
these tombs had been wrecked in ancient days, and there-
fore to the pit by which they were reached M. de Morgan
gave the name, It Pit of the spoilers." Along the principal
gallery were four tombs, and in the second of these aqueen
had been buried; on the lower stage eight sarcophagi were
found, but only two were inscribed. Subsequently it was
found that the burial place of a series of princesses had
been found, and in consequence M. de Morgan called the
place Ct Gallery of Princesses." In one of the tombs (No. 3)


