g:
29

3O

33

34.

"

40.

Ar.

NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

. C) thou that orderest words, who comest forth from
Unaset, I have never been an excitable and con
tcntious person.

. O Lord of [ various ] aspects, who comcst forth from
Netchefet, I have never been precipitate in judgment.

' C) Secheriu, who comcst forth from Uten, I have
ncvcr stirred up conspiracy.

' O Lord of the double horns, who comcst forth from
Semi, I have never multiplied my words against those
of others.

. O Nefer-Tmu, who comest forth from Het-ka-th
(Memphis), I have never meditated evil, and I have
never done evil.

O Tmu in his seasons, who comest forth from'J'attu, I
have never committed an act of wrong against
the king.

C) thou that workest in thy heart, who comest forth
from Sahu, I have never turned running water out of
its course.

_ O Akhi, who comest forth from Nu, I have never been

arrogant in speech.

. O thou who verdiiicst mankind, who comest from Sen,
I have never blasphemed God.

' O Nebebka, who comest forth from thy shrine, I have
never committed fraud.

. O thou who art dowered with splendours, who comest
forth from thy shrine, I have never defrauded the
gods of their offerings.

O Ser-tep, who comcst forth from [ thy ] shrine, I have
never robbed the dead.

C) thou that bringcst thy arm, who comcst forth from
the place of double truth, I have never robbed the
child nor dcfilcd the god of [ my ] town.

. C) Illuminator of the lands, who comest forth from T3.-

she (Fayytrm), I have never slain the animals sacred
to the gods.


