ASWAN AND THE FIRST CATARACT. 337

cause the falls of water which have given this part of the
river its name. On the west side the obstacles are not so
numerous as on the east, and sailing and rowing boats can
ascend the cataract on this side when the river is high.
The noise made by the water is at times very great, but it
has been greatly Uha.tr, ggcratcd by both ancient and modern
travellers, some of whom ventured to assert that the "water
tell from several places in the mountain more than two
hundred feet." Some ancient writers asserted that the
fountains of the Nile were in this cataract, and Herodotush
ieports that an official of the treasury of Neith at Sais
stated that the source of the Nile was here. Many of the
rocks here are inscribed with the names of kings who
reigned during the Middle Empire; in many places on the
little islands in the cataract quarries were worked. The
island of Seh√©l should be visited on account of the
numerous inscriptions left there by princes, generals, and
others who passed by on their way to Nubia. On February
6th, 1889, Mr. Wilbour was fortunate enough to discover
on the south-eastern part of this island at most important
stele consisting of a rounded block of granite, eight or
nine feet high, which stands clear above the water, and in
full view from the river looking towards Philae. Upon it
are inscribed thirty-two lines of hieroglyphics which form
a remarkable document, and contain some valuable infor
mation bearing upon a famous seven years' famine. The
inscription is dated in the eighteenth year of a king whose

name is read by Dr. Brugsch as T'eser W0 ],

Cf-FCC':? W \\_ 0:7 ] or ce; 3.1 y OJ, who is thought

to have icigned early in thc IIIriI dynasty; but internal
evidence proves beyond a doubt that the narrative con-
tained therein is a redaction of an old story, and thus

w Bk. ii., chap. 28.


