408 NOTES FOR TRAVELLERS IN EGYPT.

in Europe have enriched it by gifts of casts of important
objects preserved in their museums and by donations of
books with a view of founding a suitable library. Quite
recently Mr. D. G. Hogarth, under the auspices of the
Egypt Exploration Fund, assisted by Messrs. E. F. Benson
and E. R. Bevan of the British School of Archaeology at
Athens, during two months' work at Alexandria made a
series of explanatory borings about the central quarter
of the ancient city, including the region of Fort Kom-al-
Dikk, the reputed site of the Soma, and in the eastern
cemeteries. Mr. Hogarth's conclusions are, he says,
definite, though negative. The results of his work show
that an uninteresting deposit, from 15 to 20 feet thick, of
the Arab period, lies over all the central part of the
Roman town; that the remains of the Roman town are in
bad condition, and that their appearance indicates that
they have been ruined systematically; that immediately
below, and even above the Roman level, water is tapped,
and that the stratum earlier than the Roman must be
submerged, the soil having subsided. Such definite facts
do away, once and for all, with any hope of the discovery
of papyri.




