140 Egypt as a Winter Resort.

the English regiment quartered in Alexandria vies
with the naval and civilian population. Needless
to say, there are many hospitable evening parties,
and, as the weather gets warmer,1noonlight donkey-
excursions for the adventurous. Bathing and
fishing are always within reach; and the Ales-
andria harbour provides excellent sailing. From
November to March, plenty of duck and snipe
shooting can be had at Damietta, and within an
hour of Bamleh; and for about a month from the
middle of March, there is good quail-shooting at
Abu Homes, Damanhour, etc. From July to
October, foreign sportsmen shoot doves, hoopoes,
and other birds in the neighbourhood; and in
September the quail come again in such numbers
that one day (in 1887) two hundred and forty were
shot by a Greek resident.

Siot-seeirtp---- -Mas1. it is only with the eye of
faith that we can see relics of the famous city
founded 2200 years ago, and once boasting a
muster-roll of 500,000 souls. An English sentry
paces above the ruins of the Museum where Euclid,
Aristophanes, and Hypatia were once professors.
Where the Grand Square now stands was a long
row of obelisks and sphinxes leading to the famous
Library; but of old buildings nothing now remains
but a granite pillar or two in the native quarter of
the town. The two obelisks brought by a Caesar


