I 14 Egypt

this last sanctuary shut off thus from the people
comes the vague sound of singing ; from time to
time a priest raises a faded silk curtain and from
the threshold makes the sign of blessing. His
vestments are of gold, and he wears a golden
crown, but the humble faithful speak to him
freely, and even touch his gorgeous garments,
that might be those of one of the Wise Kings.
He smiles, and letting fall the curtain, which
covers the entrance to the tabernacle, disappears
again into his innocent mystery.

Even the least things here tell of decay. The
flagstones, trodden by the feet of numberless
dead generations, are become uneven through the
settling of the soil. Everything is askew, bent,
dusty and worn-out. The daylight comes from
above, through narrow barred windows. There
is a lack of air, so that one almost stifles. But
though the sun does not enter, a certain in-
definable 1zefleetion from the whitened walls
reminds us that outside there is a flaming,
resplendent Eastern spring.

In this, the old grandfather, as it were, of
churches, filled now with a cloud of odorous
smoke, what one hears, more even than the
chanting of the mass, is the ceaseless movement,
the pious agitation of the faithful; and more
even than that, the startling noise that rises
from the holy crypt below-the sharp clashing


