I 7 0 Egypt

though it was in the time of Cleopatra and
Augustus, on a site venerable in the oldest
antiquity, recalls at first sight some conception
of the Ramses.

If, however, you examine it more closely, there
appears, particularly in the thousands of figures
in bas-relief, a considerable divergence. The
poses are the same indeed, and so too are the
traditional gestures. But the exquisite grace of
line is gone, as well as the hieratic calm of the
expressions and the smiles. In the Egyptian art
of the best periods the slender figures are as
pure as the flowers they hold in their hands;
their muscles may be indicated in a precise and
skilful manner, but they remain, for all that,
immaterial. The god Amen himself, the pro-
creator, drawn often with an absolute crudity,
would seem chaste compared with the hosts of
this temple. For here, on the contrary, the
figures might be those of living people, palpita-
ting and voluptuous, who had posed themselves
for sport in these consecrated attitudes. The
throat of the beautiful goddess, her hips, her
unveiled nakedness, are portrayed with a
searching and lingering realism ; the flesh seems
almost to quiver. She and her spouse, the
beautiful Horus, son of Iris, contemplate each
other there, naked, one before the other, and
their laughing eyes are intoxicated with love.


