Thebes by Night 2 I I

come to the great avenue of the palaces of
Amen.

We have nothing on earth in the least degree
comparable to this avenue, which passive multi-
tudes took nearly three thousand years to con-
struct, expending, century after century, their
innumerable energies in carrying these stones,
which our machines now could not move. And
the objective was always the same l to prolong
indefinitely the perspectives of pylons, colossi
and obelisks, continuing always this same artery
of temples and palaces in the direction of the
old Nile-while the latter, on the contrary,
receded slowly, from century to century, towards
Libya. It is here, and especially at night, that
you suffer the feeling of having been shrunken
to the size of a pygmy. All round you rise mono-
liths mighty as rocks. You have to take twenty
paces to pass the base of a single one of them.
They are placed quite close together, too close,
it seems, in view of their enormity and mass.
There is not enough air between them, and the
closeness of their juxtaposition disconcerts you
more, perhaps, even than their massiveness.

The avenue which I have followed in an easterly
direction abuts on as disconcerting a chaos of
granite as exists in Thebes---the hall of the feasts
of Thothmes III. What kind of feasts were they,
that this king gave here, in this forest of thiek-set


