94

480.

11:31.

425-111 t').

-'l 0:") - 399,

ans-393.



HISTORY.

the deceased hrother of Camhyses, who had been assassinated
long before this period by order of the king himsell'.

Darius I. [ l'ers. Dru-yams ], son oflIystaspes (Vistaspai,
hecame king of the Persian empire 0n the dethronemeut of
the usnrper Ganmata (the personator of Smerdis ]. liis
policy consisted in modifying his rule over each part of his
territory in zu-eordance with its own special requirements.
ile endeavoured to promote the prosperity of Egypt in every
passible way. He established new commeroial routes from
lioptos in Upper Egypt to the lied Sea, and from Sid; and
Ahylus to the Simian; he resumed the construction of the
canal from the Nile'to the lied Sea (:1). 4'28); he improved
the roads ot'iigypt; he sent a strong garrison to the oasis
of lilrargeh [ 1). 63 }. and erected a temple to Ammou there;
he coined money for the use of the Egyptians, whose cur-
rency had hitherto consisted of stamped rings and weights;
and he appointed Amasis, a scion of the'lb'th Dynasty. his
satrap in Egypt. Hearing that the Persians had been de-
feated by the Greeks (in 49?. and 490:), the Egyptians
revolted against the Persian yoke under the leadership of
K/mbbash. a descendant of the family of l'sammetikh. The
insurrection, however, was soon quelled hy -

Xerxes I. (Pars. lt'lzsluzyarshu ], son of Darius; lihahhash
disappeared, and At-haimenes, the king's brother, "as ap-
poined satrap.

Artaxerxes I. (Pers. Arlukhshalhrifl, snrnamed Muit'roehcir,
or Longimunus, next ascended the Persian throne. During
his reign the Egyptians again revolted. l'rince lnrzrus o/'
Jim-cu, aided by the Athenians, defeated Aehaimenes, the
Persian satrap, but the allied Egyptians and (ireeks were.
in their turn defeated by the. Persian general Megahyzus
near l'rosopitis, an island in the Nile, and lnarus was
crucified. Amy/rider", a seio r of a primely lioyptiau family,
and a partizau of luarus, then sought an asylum in the
marshy coast district. where he sum-ceded in maintaining
his independence.

Herodotus travels in l'laypt.

Darius II. (l'ers. Durymms ], surnamed .Yotlms. or the
Bastard. The Evyptians now revolted for the third time.
Putts-iris, son of the Amyrtzeus above mentioned, hail
meanwhile heen succeeded by a second Amyrlacns, who still
maintained the independent position of his predeeessor in
the Delta. This Amyrtzeus headed the new insurrection,
which became general in 40-1; and he was soon recognised as
king of the whole of Egypt. He founded the r38th Dynasty,
whit-h. however, lasted for six years only. Nuifdurut (Ne-

