Egypt

who work with the greatest dexterity and speed,
the choice of colours and form of the pattern being
given by the master, who, working entirely from
memory, gives instructions to the boys by numbers
which determine the colour of the grass used, and the
number of threads of the warp to be taken up in form-.
ing the pattern.

On leaving Dekerniss, a steam-launch which plies
between Mansiarah and Menzala threw on board our
boat a bundle of letters, which recalls to my mind my
indebtedness to several of the Government departments
who have kindly undertaken to forward me my corre-
spondence, a difficult task sometimes in the case of
any one leading a nomadic life. I may give one in-.
stance which occurred a few years ago, when a letter
forwarded originally to Fakiis had followed me from
point to point for some weeks, and was eventually
delivered to me by a camel-man as I was seated enjoy-
ing an al-fresco lunch under a palm-tree. The letter
proved to be nothing more than a dinner invitation
long since out of date, but I mention the incident as
an instance of the extreme kindness of officials and
natives in the matter.

The navigable canals in Egypt are numerous. The
Bahr-el-Bukr (or river of bullocks) and the Bahr
Moiise (river of Moses) are large streams which, with
the Bahr F akiis water, form a highway for a great
portion of the Sharkiyeh and Dekkalieh provinces:
good streams of running water, which, though not
presenting the animated life of many other waterways

15o


