which we had fauna in the caoridar, ... Against tyg §_V9.f‘“"

site wall.of the ream were lcaning whet appearedttﬁ iﬁﬁt;
sides and cornice of en eanrmoua casknt-shaped Fox. On

the ground to the latt lay another side of apparently the
same box, whilst square teams 12y scattered about the floor.
'Khere ever the wondwork 19y horizantally the stucco end
geldllegf still adherad and-the scenes and inscription: on
them were cansaquently prgserved; tut of the pieces lean-
ing against the wall, nnly one still retained part 0% its
original deenrhtinn.‘

Daressy fpp-13—18) — ”The entrance corridor and eepulchrsl
hhémter contained the panels of a grept aPrcaphagus, Or,
more precisely, of a hearse which must have served t? pra-
tact the coffin daring its transport to the necropollE.

The catafalcue, of rectyngulnr form, which apened in front
with fnlding-doors, is made-of cedar—wood, naw rotted ty
~damp; it was cnvared with stucco, engraved and gilded, but
dgceretion also is in bad cnnditiqn and is breaking aft in
fragments ta such an sxtemt that theru is no hape of pro—
serving_it. ... One of the leaves of the donr was fauna in
the carridnr; tha other in the chamber. The brnnze hinges
were still attached to them. ... The folding—dnnr: cf the
cgteraleuc still retain their two bronze hinges ;;. they
consist, as usual, of one piace, hollow and rectangular,
that fitted round the cdga or the door; ... on tha lintel
of the door there was atill a hallow bronze cylind¢r(socket)
... in which the upper hinge er the deer revalved.”