16 Egypt as a Winter Resort.

north of it. Hermit crabs and very many others
of the crab family, bivalves and univalves, star-
shaped egg-urchins (Echinometra lucunter), crus-
taceans, sponges, and coral—ﬁsh, with many scores
of others, can be found by exploring the coast and
rocky pools.

By means of a boat on a clear day, a visit to the
coral reefs may be made, though the best coral is
at some distance from Suez. Dark brown and
yellowish green coral in loose and brittle bits is
based here on massive rocks of black mesh coral
(Porites), and more rarely there may be found the
cherry-red cup-star variety (P0ca’llopom)—not to
be confounded with the ordinary red coral, which
is not found here.

The strange and wonderful ﬁshes can be best
seen by going to the market, no less than ﬁve
hundred and twenty kinds which haunt the coral
slopes being known. One often offered for sale is
the ball-ﬁsh (Tetredon), which has the power of
blowing itself up like a balloon and ﬂoating on
the water on its back; this, like the urchin-ﬁsh
(Dioclon), is protected like a hedgehog on land by
spiny prickles, beside a beak something like a
parrot’s. They can bite well with their beaks, but
are not poisonous. Small sharks are occasionally
heard of, leaping and ﬂying-ﬁsh, and the gay parrot
and rainbow ﬁshes are also known.

