Mg Route 33. AliRJ-8nrBlit, Smaller

touches of Ramses ll, and his queen Neferteri. On the arehitrave
above is the inscription (to the left): ‘The living and good god
punishes the Henna (Nuhiene), conquers the land of Nehesi, smites
the S. lands, ploughe the N, lands. King Ramses and his great
consort Nofertari Mer-en-mat, they have made the temple on the

holy mountain Movwx Tu ah' (the name of the moun-

MAM
tain of Atnv,aimu, 0n the right, 'the living and good god, great
in terror, the brave lion, lord of the sword, has overcome the re
bellious lands’:ete.

The pictures on the E. wall (entrance-wall) of this hall resemble
those in the great temple; to the left, the king, before Horus who
hands him the sword of victory, seizes en overthrown Tehennu (N.
tribesmen) iby the hair to slay him; to the right standing before
Ammon, he sleys a negro. The legends are almost word for word the
same as those on the architrave. But in both the pictures in this
temple, there appears behind the king the form of his consort No-
fertari, who is named the Erpat uart, the great princess, of every
grace in her heart, the beloved palm, mistress of both lands, tMy-
loved of the king, and united with the ruler. Several portraits on
the pillars (to the right) show her to have been of great beauty.
She is represented wearing the fan-crown, the disc and horn crown,
and the serpent-diedem, holding in her right hand a sietrum with
the head of Hathor, end a iiowtyr-gtBm in her left.

On the S. wall the king appears between the deities Horus, lord
==
of Maha " w, and Seth, who bear long toothed

stavee, with the notches for the years, and the symbols of eternity.
Here also appears Hathor with a harp, generally called mistress of

C212]
Abahek tisCSdl , which perhaps was a. name for Abu-Sima-

he}. Three doors lead hence into a. narrow apartment, which Cono-
tains a picture of the queen between Isis and Hethor. On each side
of this room is a recess, and another " the back. In the last is a
remarkable flgt1rts of Hathor standing in a temple, with a human
head and above it a. cow’s head with horns surmounted by the disc
and two fans. The king stands outside the temple, offering i1owiyrs,

To the N. of the small temple and still on the smoothed part of
the eliff, we observe a tablet on which a prince of Kush, Ani by
name, a man of Khinensu, appears with the fan and princely staff
before Ramses the Great; beside it is a t1msly executed etele, con-
taining the homage of a grandee to the king. To the S. of the great
temple is a passage with a somewhat weather-worn stole facing the
N., dating from the 34th year of the king. This is more especially
interesting from the fact that above, to the right of the king who
sits beneath a cen0py between two gods, ep ears the beautiful

  


