xlviii THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. Europeans.

small banks which lend money on good security, bothto thepeasantry
and the government-oft/ls, at a rate ofinterest sometimes amount-
ing to 6 per cent monthly, the maximum permitted bY law. The
Greeks are the only Europeans who have established themselves
permanently as merchants beyond the ontineg of Egypt proper. The
entire trade with the Sudan is now in their hands. The Greeks also
have the 11ner1viable notoriety of committing numerous murders,
thefts, and other crimes, but it must be borne in mind that they are
by far the most numerous section of the European community (38,200
from Greece alone, besides about as many who are Turkish sub-
jeetsl, and that some 30,000 of them belong to the lowest class of
immigrants. The superiority of the Greeks to the Orientals is no-
where so strikingly manifested as in Egypt, where it affords a modem
reflex of their ancient, world-renowned Supremacy.

The Italian residents, 24,454 in number, consist ishiefly of trad-
ers of a humble Mass, advocates, and musicians, from the operatic
singer down to the Galahrian itinerant. Of French nationality
(14,172) are all the artizans of the higher class, who are generally
noted for their skill, trustworthiness, and sobriety, and indeed
form the most respectable stratum of the European community.
Most of the better shops are kept by Frenehmen, and the chief
European offieials of the government, including several architects
and engineers, are French. The British settlers numbered 6118 in
1882 and in 1897 about 14,654, exclusive of the troops, of which
there were 4909. Until recently their specialities were the manu-
facture of machinery and the construction of railways and harbours;
but oflate they have also almost monopolised the chief posts in
those branches of the administration (army, post and telegraphoffiee,
railways, o11stom-ho11se) that have been remodelled after the
European pattern. A large majority of the residents who enjoy the
protection of the British consulate are Maltese (6481) and to them
apply even more forcibly most of the remarks already maderegarding
the Greeks. It has been ascertained that the Maltese settlers in
foreign countries are more numerous than those resident in their two
small native islands, and of these a considerable proportion he-
longs to Egypt. At home, under the discipline of British institu-
tions, they form a pattern little nation of their own, but in Egypt,
where they are freed from the restraint of these inf1ueaees, they
are very apt to degenerate and to swell unduly the ranks of the
criminal class. Many of the Maltese, however, are enterprising
tradesmen and industrious artizans, such as shoemakers andjoiners.
To the Austrian (7115) and German (1281) community belong a
number of merchants of the best class, many physicians and teaeh-
ers, inn-keepers, musicians, and lastly humble handicraftsmen.

With regard to the capability of Europeans of becoming ae-
elimatised in Egypt, there are anumber ofwidely divergent Opinions,
Much, of course, must depend on the nature oftho climate of their


