In the Temple of the Ogress 271

like rain, crash into and annihilate one another,
only to be renewed for fresh eternities.

All this is seen too vividly, the horror of it
becomes intolerable, on a clear night like this,
in a place so silent and littered so with ruins.
More and more the cold penetrates you-the
mournful cold of the sidereal spheres from which
nothing now seems to protect you, so 1arefied
---almost non-existent-does the limpid atmo-
sphere appear. And the gravel, the poor dried
herbs, that crackle under foot, give the illusion
of the crunching noise we know at home on
winter nights when the frost is on the ground.

Iapproach at length the temple of the Ogress.
These stones which now appear, whitish in the
night, this secret-Iooking dwelling near the
boundary wall of Thebes, proclaim the spot, and
verily at such an hour as this it has an evil
aspect. Ptolemaie columns, little vestibule,
little courtyards where a dim blue light enables
you to find your way. Nothing moves; not
even the flight of a night bird: an absolute
silence, magnified awfully by the presence of the
desert which you feel encompasses you beyond
these walls. And beyond, at the bottom, three
chambers made of massive stone, each with its
separate entrance. I know that the first two are
empty. It is in the third that the Ogress dwells,
unless, indeed, she have already set out upon her


