Present-Day Egypt

works of importance were made at public expense,
and it is stated that every book that came into the
city was seized and kept, a copy only being handed
to the owner. Scholars from many lands made
Alexandria their abiding-place, to enjoy the une..
fits of the priceless books and parchments. Strabo
and Euclid studied there. When the fanatical calif
Omar overran Egypt, in the seventh century, he
proclaimed that, as the Koran contained everything
that man should know, other books had no right to
exist. Consequently he decreed that the second
great library to bring renown to Alexandria should
forthwith be destroyed. It is recorded that seven
hundred thousand manuscripts and volumes in all
languages were apportioned to the eity's four thou-
sand public bathing establishments, with which the
fires of these were fed for six months. This was,
indeed, the most crushing blow ever inflicted on
literature.

Ruled now by Persian, now by Roman, now by
Greek, and enervated by vice and luxury, and with
the loss of population and prestige that preceded
the stagnation and decay spreading over the cen-
turies from Cleopatra to Mehemet Ali, Alexandria/s
varying welfare could not be detailed within the
limits of a sketchy chapter. The death-blow to its
fortunes was the discovery, in 1497, of the passage
round the Cape of Good Hope, which changed the
direction of the commerce of the East.

The Alexandria that visitors see dates only from
the beginning of the nineteenth century, with the
advent of Mehemet Ali. Taking the leaderless

84


