Story of the Suez Canal

is responsible for the mortgaging of the Egyptian
people, body and soul, inasmuch as it inspired and
developed to an inordinate degree the borrowing
habit of two of their rulers. Prior to the giving
of the canal concession in 1856, by Viceroy Said,
Egypt had no debt whatever. Ber credit was first
pledged in Europe by Said Pasha, who, to add lus-
ter to his name, subscribed seventeen million dol-
lars to the stock of the canal enterprise, although
the undertaking was to cost Egypt nothing, and
for ninety-nine years the country was to receive
from it fifteen per cent. of the gross revenue.
Said's vainglorious act laid the corner-stone of
Egypt's new house of bondage.

Ismail, succeeding to the throne, lent himself
readily to the seductive project. Learning how
easy it was to get money simply by affixing, his
signature to an innocent-looking paper, thought-
fully prepared in Europe, thenceforth there was
frequent exchange between the khedive and the
money-capitals of Europe of these innocent-look-
ing papers for gold. There were many investors
in the canal scheme, of course; but it seemed as if
Egypt was ever feeding the insatiable monster with
money, and human life as well; for fear fifths of
the laborers who dug the vast ditch were drafted
from the Egyptian peasantry, and so poorly cared
for that thousands died. A day of reckoning came,
however, when financial engagements could not be
met; for Egypt was hypothecated to its utmost
value, and the usurers of Europe made such bitter
outcry that Ismail Pasha was forced by the Sultan,

I 8 5


