Egypt
athwart the stream which bears them slowly to their
northern markets.

No less interesting are the mud-banks themselves,
crowned with the fresh green of the young Indian-
corn crop. You will notice how each successive fall
of the water cuts the steep sides into terraces, from
the face of which slabs of alluvial mud constantly
break off like basaltic rock, and are swept away in
the stream. Each fresh terrace as it is formed is
brought under cultivation by the industrious farmer,
who plants on its narrow area onions, beans, and
other vegetables.

In mid-stream, before the water has entirely left it,
every mud-bank is marked out with stakes, and these
claims will presently be sown with water-melon and
cucumber, every inch of arable soil being utilised to
its utmost possibility.

From the terraces of the bank you may see fisher-
men throwing their hand-nets. The nets are circular,
about twelve feet in diameter, with a line attached to
the centre. The fisherman lays his net in folds upon
both arms, and with a dexterous swing of the body
throws it over the water, upon which it falls in a
perfect circle. The outer edge is weighted and falls
slowly to the bottom, enclosing whatever fish may
happen there in its descent. The fish caught in this
way are usually small, though the Nile contains many
of great size which are sometimes caught by line.

I noticed one day a. curious episode in this connec-
tion. As the fisher cast his net, a Kingfisher, poised

88


