6 Egypt as a Winter Resort.

irritatingly, until they get used to mosquito-nets.
(4) A certain monotony at the dinner-table of
bt1teher's meat, poultry, and game. (5) The insani-
tary condition of the picturesque old parts of
Cairo.

The climate of Egypt is, then, suitable during
the winter months for a great variety of chronic
ailments, among Which may be mentioned-neon-.
valescence from pneumonia, fevers, and all acute
diseases; that common delicacy of English youth
which may be called â€œthreatened phthisis," all
cases of early phthisis, and all quiescent cases of
the late forms of the disease; chronic bronchitis
and emphysema; bronchial, catarrhal, and spas-
modie asthma; chronic catarrhal affeetions of the
larynx and pharynx, including cle1gyman's sore
throu;" rheumatism, rheumatoid arthritis, and
gout in its various forms ; heart-disease, and all
other complaints Which prevent a, patient from
walking or other active exercise; anaemia, and
chlorosis; exhaustion of ne1oirars system from too
great excitement, worry, business, or study, and
sleeplessness OI' hypoehot1d1"1a; neuralgia, hysteria
and its accompanying dyspepsia; diseases of spinal
cord, locomotor ataxy, etc.; chronic kidney-dis-
case; and the very large class of people without
organic disease, who shrivel up sadly in a cold
climate, and expand joyously in a sunny atmo-

"


