116 Egypt as a Winter Resort.

was 61° in the saloon and 53° on deck. The wind
was northerly or north-west, and on eight days
strong.

Dr. Worihington's records for May were still
on the dahabiyeh at Cairo, during weather which
most people found unpleasantly hot. Bis baro-
meter average was 80'26; the maximum saloon
average was 86'5°, and the average minimum heat
was 6riy' in the saloon and 6457" on deck. Wind
was north-west, north-east, and north. There were
three scorching hot days, and on the evening of
the 23rd there was a little rain.

Places of interest.---) following sights can be
easily visited during the voyage up the Nile:
Sakkiirah, Maydoum Pyramid, sugar-factories,
grottoes of Beni Hassan, Tel-el-Amarna, Assiout,
Ekhmeem where there has been a, recent find ot
antiquities, Abydos, Denderah, Luxor, Karnak,
Thebes, Esneh, Edfu, Silsileh, Komombo, Assouan,
Elephantine Island, and Philae.

There are many who wish to go higher than the
First Cataract and to see the wonders of Kalabsheh,
Abu Simbel, and Wady Halfa; but for this, special
arrangements are necessary both by steamer and
by dahabiyeh.

The chief monuments of the Nile are south of
Assiout, so that no invalid who has seen Sakkarah
while in Cairo need grudge the few remaining


