I 56 Egypt
shadM, worked by men whose naked bodies
stream with the cold water.

The shadtds follow one another sometimes as
far as the eye can see. It is strange to watch
the movement-confused in the distance-of all
these long rods which pump the water without
ceasing, and look like the swaying of living
antennae. The same sight was to be seen along
this river in the times of the Ramses. But
suddenly, at some bend of the river, the old
Pharaonic rigging disappears, to give place to
a succession of steam machines, which, more
even than the muscles of the fellahs, are busy at
the water-drawing. Before long their blackish
chimneys will make a continuous border to the
tamed Nile.

Did one not know their bearings, the great
ruins of this Egypt would pass unnoticed. With
a few rare exceptions they lie beyond the green
plains on the threshold of the solitude. And
against the ehangeless, rosecoloured background
of these cliffs of the desert, which follow you
during the whole of this tranquil navigation of
some 600 miles, are to be seen only the humble
towns and villages of to-day, which have the
neutral colour of the ground. Some openwork
minarets dominate them-white spots above the
prevailing dullness. Clouds of pigeons whirl
round in the neighbourhood. And amongst the




