1337.

1892.

1596,

1898.

1809,

1902.
190).

1iW7.

191t

w. MODERN mSTCHIY. exxv

mull, 0n the evening of Jan. Ilirh, and on Jan. 24th A
small body ol' men under Sir Chas. Wilson set out forKhar-
triru in two steamboats which Gordon had sent to meet
them. Sit Charles reached Khart.fun on the 28th, but found
that it had already fallen on the 26th, apparently through
treachery, and that Gordon had perished (camp. p. 427).

The project of rucenquering the Egyptian 81111311 from the
Mahdists was temporarily abandoned, and W.tdi Ijalfa re-
mnined the S. limit of the thulivo's donrinions (p. xlvi),
In 1885 the Mahdi died and Was succeeded by the lealffa
'Abdait0. - Though Suikiu \Iecame the basis of more or
less desultory operations against Osman Digna, the Bri-
tish devoted their chief attention to developing and im-
proving the administration of Egypt proper. Negotiations
on the part of tho Porte, instigated by France and Rnssxa.
to bring the British occupation ofligypt to a close, proved
fruitless. A loan of 9,000,000L was raised by the British
for the purpose of regulating the Egyptian 1'tmuttyes. In
1887 a convention with France established the uncondi-
tional neutrality of the Suer. canal.

The khedire Tanfih died on January 7th, 1892, and was sue-
ecedcd by his eldest son'Abhis II. Hilmi (h. May 20tu,
t874). llis itrdependetree of action is controlled by the
British diplumatie agent (see below),

In the spring of lSUli a British-Egyptian nmitary force under
"Herbert Kitchener (new Viscount Kitchener of Iihar-

l tim) commenced operations against the Mahdists to the S.
ofWédi IJalfa. On Sept. 2nd, i898, the armyot'thc I (halifa
rAbdallih was defeated in a decisive engagement at Ker-
teri (p. 431), and Omdurmiin, the Malulist capital, on the
left bank of the Nile, appeaite Khartfnu, was taken. Since
then the Egyptian Shdin, reunited to Egypt, has been un-
der .1 special Anglo-Egyptian administration (see p. 415),
at the head ofwhich is a British Crovernor-6eiutcl, or Sirdér.

In Egypt itself numerous reforms Were accomplished by the
British administration, and, in especial, much was done to
further agriculture by the building of light railways and
the extension of the irrigation "stern.

The Great Nile Dam of Assuén was opened.

AI) g ] o-I" reneh understanding by which England promised not

l to alter the existing conditions in Egypt, while France gave

up all claim to set any period for the evacuation of Egypt.

5 Lord Gunner, the British diplomatic agent (1883-1907J,

resigned tyfliee and was replaced by Sir Eldon (forest, who

I retired in 1911 and was succeeded by -

_ I Viscount Kitchener or Khartrlm (see above).




