Paradoxical Administration

masses and the upper class is wide, the desire for
petty offiee-hofding is one of the crying evils of
Egypt. It is estimated that two per cent. of the
able-bodied men serve the government in some
capacity, and to secure public employ is the dream
of nearly every youth not satisfied to become a
farmer. Nepotism formerly had full play, and it is
now diffieult to make the people understand that
merit and capacity should place one in the public
service, rather than favor. Ministries and public
offices appear to be overcrowded with subordinates
of every conceivable nationality. The responsible
heads of departments are generally English, but the
clerks are French, Italian, Syrian, and Egyptian,
with a liberal sprinkling, of British subjects. Func-
tionaries of the Egyptian government are surpris-
ingly overpaid or underpaid, their salaries being
strangely out of proportion. Cabinet offieers are
paid fifteen thousand dollars a year, and under-
secretaries seventy-five hundred dollars-twiee
what Washington officials of the same grade receive.
But many of the hardest-worked accountants and
translators are rewarded with salaries barely suffi-
cient to provide the necessaries of life. The de-
partments and bureaus of the government are open
only in the forenoon, and the offieial day's work
never exceeds five hours, and nearly every week
has a religious or other anniversary that is treated
as a holiday. In that halcyon period known as
"the good old days D there were more civil servants
in Egypt than in Great Britain, with five times the
population. Many abuses have been abolished, but

131


