Paradoxical Administration

Similarly, the spirit of internationalism dominates
the Daira Sanieh, the State Domains, and other
divisions of the government, aggregating a mighty
draft on the exchequer. But the customs and post-
offiee departments, each with a single head, are
models of perfection. The postal service, managed
by Saba Pasha, seems to be faultless.

The purchasing power, held to be indicative of a
nation's pecuniary condition, has advanced with
other statistics dealing with the eountry's welfare.
In 1882 the imports were valued at $ 32,127,650; in
1890, $ 40,409,635, and in 1896, $ 45,750,000. Exports
for the same years--eotton, eotton-seed, sugar, and
grain-were valued at $ 54,977,850, $ 59,373,490, and
$ 66,000,000, respectively. More than half of the
foreign commerce is with Great Britain. The cot-
ton crop, wholly exported, produces in the neigh-
borhood of $ 50,000,000 a year. Of this the United
States buys about $ 4,000,000 worth. The tonnage
arrivals at the port of Alexandria have nearly
doubled since 1882, and in a normal year are
slightly in excess of two million tons. The port
receipts are as high as $ 7,000,000 in a year.

To carry on the government requires about $ 53, -
000,000 a year. It used to be more in the free-and-
easy times when budgeh-makirlg, was the merest
guesswork, and defieieneies could be explained in
the convenient phrase, "insuifieieney of reeeipts."
The heaviest outlay is for interest on the bonded
indebtedness, $ 18,850,000; while the annual tribute
to the Sultan (signed away by that monarch to
European bankers) consumes $ 3,365,200 more.

I33


