Expansion by Irrigation

ity at Khartum practically determined this, as it
means that in time the Sudan provinces will be
important grain-exporters.

The agricultural industry that will be chiefly
benefited by the Assmm reservoir and the tribu-
tary weir at Assiut is cane-culture. With Cuba's
productiveness greatly impaired as a result of the
prolonged strife iu the island, the opening years
of the twentieth century are considered propitious
for doubling or trebling Egypt's output of raw
sugar. The Nile cane is of such exceptional qual-
ity that much European capital has been invested
in its cultivation, while crushing-factories have
gone up on the river's banks as if by magic.

No subject is receiving wider attention at this
time than that of territorial expansion. Great
Britain, as well as France, Germany, and Russia, is
yearly pressing forward its domain in Africa or
Asia, preceded by the soldier or explorer; and the
fortunes of war have earried the Stars and Stripes
oversea, and brought numerous islands as well as
an Asiatic archipelago under administrative gui-
dance from Washington.

But the triumph of practical science, such as irri-
gation, bearing no relation to the sword or diplo-
macy, which turns a single acre of desert sand into
a productive field, must be a thousandfold more
valuable to the world than the victory of arms that
merely changes a frontier or deprives a defeated
nation of a single foot of soil: it is the victory of
peace; it is creation. As a method of making terri-
tory, it is one over which statesmen can never differ.

I47


