Tewfik and the Arabi Rebellion

sword," whispered Colvin to his Highness. Could
Tewfikrs lips have uttered these words in a manner
carrying authority, the craven would have laid his
weapon at the feet of his effendina and kissed the
skirt of his garment-and the Arabi rebellion would
have been stifled while yet in innocent embryo,
and a dark chapter in Egyptian history would have
been avoided. But the khedive's tongue was as if
paralyzed. A word to the troops, later, would have
caused a reaffirmation of their loyalty; and, had
their sovereign mounted Arabi's horse and led the
regiments through the city, Arabi and the cause he
was espousing would have been ridiculed out of
existence.

But Arabi saw that he had conquered in this con-
fliet with spineless Tewiik, and from that instant
he was master of the situation and the apostle of
a movement now grown to national proportions.
Arabi had his way, and the khedive dismissed the
ministry of Riaz Pasha. Not many months later
Arabi was minister of war, and his better-informed
ally, Mahmoud Sami, rose to be prime minister.

To Mehemet Ali the incident would have been
but a playful moment, and he would have pistoled
the leader instantly. Ismail Pasha, even, would
have dealt with it no less oonelusiveli, but in a
different way. But the father and great-grand-
father of Khedive (I? esrfik were men of impulse and
quick action.

After his easy triumph at Abdin, the dreamy
Arabi became a bustling bully, full of his own im-
portance, and displaying more than usual igno-

259


