The Present Khedival Family

and with the German in the choicest language of the
Austrian court. Later he conducts affairs with the
Sultan's representative in Turkish, and may con-
clude the day by presiding over a council of his
ministry, when all sorts of intricate details of policy
are arranged in Arabia, the native tongue of Egypt,
and one of the most difficult of languages. The
evening may see his Highness at the theater, lis-
tening with pleasure and understanding to opera
rendered in Italian.

The accomplishment yielding the khedive his
greatest pleasure, next to his horsemanship, is his
musical profieieney. He is a skilful pianist, and
has a correct ear for melody. Included in his en-
tourage are forty or fifty picked musicians, consti-
tuting his private band, whose position is anything
but a sineeure. At Koubbeh the bandsmen are
quartered close to the palace, and an abbreviated
rehearsal or a flagrantly false note receives imme-
diate attention from his Highness, it is said.

Abbas Pasha does not claim infallibility, but
realizes, like his seniors, that administrative mis-
takes can be made. He is a very different man
from the ordinary typo of Oriental sovereign, hav-
ing no religious bigotry, narrowness of thought, or
ignorance of the outside world. A desire to pro-
mote tho welfare of his people is his controlling
thought, and under his guidance their future would
be full of encouragement and hope.

The khedive receives a yearly grant from the
Egyptian government of fisro hundred thousand
dollars. His private wealth is great, and ehiefly

279


