Britain's Position in Egypt

dan will be able to pay its way; but with good
management it should eventually become a con-
tributor to the Cairo exchequer.

It is interesting to observe, by recorded offieial ut-
terances and the sequence of events, how the reten-
tion of Egypt by Great Britain could not have been
seriously considered until years after the occupa-
tion had been entered upon. Oftentimes it is en-
tertaining to follow the development of an idea,
especially one having for its consummation a result
or condition the very opposite of the purpose den
elared at the outset. To begin the evolution of the
idea of permanently retaining Egypt, it is instruc-
tive to state that the Gladstone government, which
sent the troops and ships to Egypt in 1882, asserted
that British intervention was made solely in the
interests of humanity, and for the purpose of sup-
pressing the Arahi rebellion and restoring the au-
thority of the khedive. These pledges, although
addressed to no speeifle government, were accepted
in Europe in good faith.

A few hours before opening the bombardment of
Alexandria, the commander of the British fleet said,
in a formal communication to Khedive Tswfik:
"I deem it opportune to reaffirm to your Highness
that the government of Great Britain has no in-
tention to effect the conquest of Egypt, nor to in-
terfere in any way with the liberties or religion of
the Egyptians; its sole object is to protect your
Highness and the Egyptian people from the rebels."

Admiral Seymour spoke with the authority of
his government in this momentous matter, as did

311


