Present-Day Egypt

ity is combined with a run of abnormally warm
weather. The period of comparatively cold weather,
six weeks at most, commences early in January. i
From April until the end of June the increase of'
heat is gradual, the maximum being reached usu-.
ally by July 1; but in some years the highest
temperature is not recorded until August or Sep-
tember. The so-ealled khamsin period sets in by
the middle of February, with its parching desert
winds, freighted with impalpable particles of sand
that cannot be excluded by door or window. Wher-
ever air has access, there the khamsin leaves its
layer of dust. The word "kharnsinn is Arabic for
"fifty," and the belief is that this is the number of
days prior to the summer solstice when the scorch-
ing winds are liable to occur. A khamsin generally
lasts two days, but a season seldom sees more than
eight or ten days of these sand-storms. It is no-
thing to be dreaded, beyond making it desirable to
remain indoors during its prevalence. Sufferers
from certain forms of asthma even profess to enjoy
a khamsin day.

It is diffieult to believe that the eo11ntry's in-
creased canalization and the added area of vege-
tation are contributing to a diminution of the
frequency and force of the khamsin, when one real-
izes the overwhelming expanse of desert in which
these winds have uninterrupted play. Like the
severity of New England winters, the force of the
khamsin in the Nile valley has manifestly been mod-
ified in recent years. Those who wrote of Egypt a
hundred or even fifty years ago emphasized their

338


