In Egypt for Health's Sake

moved from the river-banks, as offered by the
tourist-boats, the post-steamers are quicker and
much less expensive. In either case, the traveler
is seldom oat of telegraphic touch with the world
for more than a few hours at a time.

Sanitary skill has liberated Egypt from the list
of eastern countries where epidemics may rage un-
controlled, and there is no more important item
of benefit through British intervention than the
introduction of measures which quickly suppress
or limit outbreaks of cholera. and fevers. A visi-
tation of cholera a generation ago ran riot for many
months and decimated the population of Egyptian
cities and towns. Dreadful as it must ever be,
cholera nowadays is so promptly and intelligently
dealt with that well-conditioned people run little
risk of contracting the malady. The last serious
appearance of this disease in 1896, although re-
quiring months to exterminate, was so skilfully
handled that the mortality was kept at an un-
heard-of low figure; and had it not been for the
sensational chroniclings of the press of Europe but
few persons dwelling in the European quarters of
Cairo and Alexandria would have suffered anxiety.
Travelers on the Nile were no more in danger than
if making a tour of the fiords of Norway. The in-
ternational quarantine board in Egypt keeps a
vigilant watch of Asiatic epidemics, and apprehends
the spread of avirulent disease usually long before
it has reached Suez in its western progress. Were
it not for the timely work of the international
board, whose labors were augmented by those of

363


