Present-Day Egypt

extent, and men and women of high degree Wear
rings of silver wire to protect them from the evil
eye. Cairo would be a rich field for the exercise
of a little practical philanthropy based on the
employment of soap, water, and ser11bbing-brush;
but it would come into eonir1et with the religion,
which makes of the blind man a person to he
revered, and affords him an almost priestly occu-
pation.

Strange to relate, Cairo is being adorned with
statues, like cities in the Christian world. In his
determination to make his capital a triumph of
artistic beauty, Ismail courageously ordered a
French sculptor, thirty years or more ago, to model
a few figures of Egyptian military worthies. The
faithful in Alexandria had permitted a eolossal
offigy in bronze of Mehemet Ali to be raised in the
public square, although a tenet of the Koran was
violated thereby. Another statue, perpetuating the
military 1yxploits of the second Viceroy of Egypt,
Ibrahim Pasha, had been erected in the Place of
the Opera in Cairo, without provoking an outbreak
among strict followers of the Koran. The bronze
lions guarding the Nile bridge were likewise ae-
cepted without protest. Ismail believed it would
awaken the martial spirit of his subjects if every
public square in Cairo could have its bronze pre-
sentment of a departed hero or notable; and If it
amused him to turn the old city of the ealifs into
a statuary gallery, who was to say nay? I suspect
that Ismail must have seen the artistic side of the
sculptured sentiment of the Campo Santo in Genoa.

34


