Present-Day Egypt

whom it descended to Halim Pasha, his son, but for
many years has been the subject of acrimonious
litigation among members of the khedival family,
the magnitieent place remaining unoccupied since
Prince Hassan's demise. The umbrageous Shubra
avenue, two miles in length, connecting Cairo and
the palace, was beloved by generations of gay
people, until the oval Ghizereh drive became
the Rotten Row of the Egyptian capital. From
that moment the decline of the Shubra drive was
rapid, until in these days it attracts very few Cai-
renes. The palace has that look of absenteeism so
suggestive of lawsuits, and the fine villas lining the
roadway from Cairo are in great part tenantless as
well.

Standing close to the Nile, with the Pyramids in
plain view, the palace seems worthy of occupancy.
Its situation is not rivaled by any other princely
home in the country, surely; but it is probably
permanently dismantled. The gardens are still
magnificent, rich with tropical plants and trees,
and very extensive. The gem of the place is the
wonderful kiosk, hidden from sight by groves of
orange-, sycamore-, and lebbek-trees. It is a curi-
ous structure, covering an acre or more, and was
once resplendent with decorations of the Italian
Renaissance school. These are now peeling off, the
silken hangings of the corner rooms almost fall into
shreds from their own weight, the tortoise-shell-
inlaid billiard-cues are succumbing to the warping
hand of time, and the freseo-portraits of Mehemet
Ali and Ibrahim are almost unrecognizable.

72


